---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "My Excitement for JavaScript"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-08-29
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - JavaScript
---
The world of programming is vast, filled with a myriad of different coding languages, each unique in its own way. As for my experience, I have only scratched the surface of this world. I have had experience with C, C++, and Java, as these are taught in the basic computer science pipeline at UH. Learning Java was quite difficult for me in the beginning, while C and C++ were a bit easier to understand, in my opinion. I was quite worried when tasked with a new language, but I was motivated as JavaScript is a very important language to have knowledge of.

Entering the realm of JavaScript, my worries quickly melted away as it was quite intuitive to learn. The simple syntax really aided my learning and helped JavaScript seem not as concrete as other languages. JavaScript is also very popular, meaning that there is a wide selection of documentation and online help available, which is incredibly helpful. Compared to the other languages I have encountered, delving into JavaScript was much easier and more fluid. The online JavaScript course seemed overwhelming at first, but it became quite enjoyable as I learned each and every little piece of syntax and applied them to larger assignments as well. My favorite part of the coursework was the ES6 section, which explained alternate syntaxes that could be used in programs.

The Workouts of the Day (WODs) are very helpful to me and how they are presented in this class. While the time limit may seem daunting at first, with more practice, the time appears more than sufficient—at least for the first few WODs. The practice WODs are very beneficial as you aren't penalized for making mistakes. As my teacher mentioned, you rarely write a program and have it work on the first try. Coding is all about trial and error, and learning from your mistakes.


